Let's get into intro to Dockerfiles, so,
so far everything that we've been focused
on with regards to Docker has been on
running existing containers, right?
Which again, for engineers and
developers, it's probably most of what
you'll be doing with containers, right?
But it's also I think,
useful to know how to build containers,
there's a bunch of
different ways to do it.
Let's call it the most common and
my opinion best way of doing
it is with Dockerfiles.
So there's actually like a file
format called Dockerfile and
Docker reads this and then it uses
that to build containers for you.
So let's just jump right into it and
start building something, all right?
So somewhere on your computer I'm gonna
go into, let's go into personal, and
I'm gonna make a directory called
intro-to-containers, okay?
I'm gonna change directory
into intro-to-containers,
I'm going to open my VS code
into intro-to-containers.
So right now I have
just an empty directory that we're gonna
start making some projects together,
and again, there is a GitHub repo
out there that I've created.
GitHub btholt projects for
complete intro-to-containers,
this exists out there, this has all
of the files that I'm about to do, it
also has like the truancy groups and all
those like it has those as a shell file.
So for example, we're about to do
Dockerfiles, so as you may imagine,
there's a directory called Dockerfile,
click on that.
And on behold there's a Docker
file in there, right?
So if you get behind or
if you don't feel like typing them or
something like that, it's all there, and
I try to make it pretty self
evident what goes where, right?
So if I go here into intro to Dockerfiles,
right?
This is Dockerfile,
I try to call it the same thing so
that if you go over here
it's also called Dockerfile.
So again, I'm gonna be using Visual Studio
code, again, I work on it, so
I like it, I also think it's
a really great editor, so
you should definitely use it but
you also don't have to.
I will just be very sad, so, I'm just
gonna make all my projects in here,
I'm gonna make a directory called
dockerfile, cd into dockerfile.
And here, now that we have a directory,
Intro-to-Containers,
so you can see here I have a dockerfile
directory, create a new file in here and
it's gonna be called Dockerfile.
And I get a nice little, well right there,
so we have a Dockerfile, right?
So what we're going to create here is
we're going to create a file that Docker
is going to read, and it's going to use
that to build a container for us, right?
So it's a series of instructions, right?
Do this, then do this,
then do this, then do this,
it's very procedural in
that particular way.
And literally each line is
called an instruction, right?
That's why I say, use instructions,
because that's literally what it is,
so we're gonna make like the most
basic node, Dockerfile ever.
So, the first thing you need to start out
with is a base container, so you say,
FROM, I get nice auto-completion,
thanks VS code, pat myself on the back.
I didn't do it so
I don't know why I'm doing that, FROM,
and then you start with
some base level container.
So we're gonna start with one of them
that we've already been using, so
I'm gonna say, FROM node:12-stretch So
it knows it's gonna go out to Docker Hub,
it's gonna find
our node stretch container, and that
is the starting point for this, right?
So we know that this has
node installed in it,
we know that it has npm installed on it.
We know that it has some other
features like they've already created
a node user for us there's
a bunch of stuff in there, right?
Bunch of goodness I'm going to
suggest like if you're doing a node
container, right?
Like a node project,
start with something like this, right?
It doesn't necessarily have to be this
one, there are other ones out there,
I think, Node Source makes one.
There's another company that I'm
just blanking on the name but
there's a bunch of them that
make really good containers.
Okay, and then the next thing in here,
I'm just gonna tell it to do something
whenever it starts up, right?
So I'm gonna say, CMD, and then you tell
it what to do when it starts up, and
you give it an array of things, right?
So in this case, I'm gonna say,
node, we want it to run node,
then we're gonna give it the flag of -e.
And now we're gonna say, run console.log,
we have to escape these.
There we go.
So -e just means immediately execute
this string of code right here, so
it's actually feeding this in as if it was
like the file that node's gonna run for
you, right?
So as you might imagine,
this is just gonna run hi.
So, just to show you, if I say node -e,
Then I do that here.
Hopefully that's unsurprising what
that was supposed to do, right?
That's what the -e does, right?
Just wanted to show you that, because most
people probably don't execute their code
that way, and I can't see why not.
I'm just kidding, it's a terrible idea,
don't do that [LAUGH]
all right, so that's it, right?
This is probably the most basic
node application you could write in
a dockerfile.
Now, if you remember,
if you just run node stretch directly,
it just drops into the ripple, right?
So it has its own CMD in there,
so that's how CMD works,
it takes the last one that it found,
right?
So this is the last CMD that it finds so
it executes this one, it overwrote
the one that was previously there, right?
So if I have one underneath
here that says, I don't know,
right, it will do this last one,
now, vs codes gonna say,
you have CMD in here twice.
Why?
Why would you do that to yourself?
Right?
So thanks VS code, but
we'll just get rid of that line and
we'll do it like this,
all right, so I'm gonna open my CRI here.
And I mean this particular file,
and I'm gonna say docker build,
and just tell where the docker file is,
as soon as you need the dockerfile you can
tell it something else if you need to.
Let me say docker build.,
dot mean right here, right?
And look for
the Docker file in this directory.
Okay, so
it's gonna say FROM node:12-stretch,
most of us probably still have
that on our computer, right?
So it'll immediately do that,
and then it builds another layer on top of
that, which is this command that we do and
then it built this container
right here with this name.
So I'm gonna say docker run-it,
or actually we don't
even have to do the it,
you can say docker run that.
And there you go, we just ran our
first container that we've created.
And I feel like this was really
important for everyone to see, probably
the best container ever, definitely
the best container ever, all right.
How do you feel about that?
Makes sense?
Good so far?
Cool.
>> CMG is nine, zero, it's not required
for dockerfile, but it's a useful thing,
otherwise, it's going
to default to whatever.
>> Whatever the previous from is, right?
And you can make containers that are like
are designed to have execute, right?
Cuz I can still do Docker run this and
I can do LS, right?
And it'll overwrite that,
that's CMD in there, right?
That's all that this does right here,
is it overrides whatever the CMD is,
so you can build containers
that are designed to have commands
filtered into them, right?
So it make sense?
Okay, cool.
So it's annoying that I have
to say number here, right?
Like it'd be better if there
was like name for it, so
let's do that, so docker build.
And again,
the order here is quite important,
we're gonna do -- tag my-node app.
Now it's gonna be instant cuz
it's the exact same Dockerfile so
everything already exists.
It still is caching all those layers for
you, right?
So it doesn't redo the same thing.
And so now I have my-node-app: latest,
which it automatically puts
that tag on there for us.
That it all just works.
>> Do we have to specify the version
number or is it always gonna be latest?
>> If you don't specify it,
It will give you latest,
if you do specify it then it wiil.
>> Is there a good practice for that?
>> You should version your containers,
yeah.
But as you can see tags are the wild west,
right?
You can name them whatever you want and
like lots people have
various different strategies.
But I guess the key there is,
we just wanna be obvious about
what people are getting, right?
That's what they expect.
So, let's actually even do that right now,
well, just to show you,
docker run my-node-app,
This now works right?
But let's say I did this again and
we're gonna build it and
I'm gonna put :1, right?
So this is the tag, then I successfully
tag this as my-node-app:1.
Now let's go change this, so it says,
let's go back to rofl because
that was enlightening as well.
Philosophy according to Brian, and we're
going to put in there 2 now instead of 1.
So now I can come in here and
say docker run my-node-app: 1,
and I'll get omg hi lol and
if I do 2, I'll get rofl, so
that's like the most basic
intro-to-dockerfiles, right?
That's showing you how to tag them,
how to build them, and
the most basic set of instructions, right?
All of them are gonna have a FROM,
most of us are going to be building our
own base images and don't ask me how to,
cuz I've never done it myself.
I've never needed to, right?
I've never needed to build my own Ubuntu.
Canonical is much better
building Ubuntu that I am,
just like mildly better than I am,
that's, that's a joke,
Canonical makes Ubuntu I think
they're a lot better at it than I am.